All these examples have been set up to work with latex, although I
often prefer plain TeX because latex's page breaking is so bad and so
hard to control.  breakmodel.nw is the only one that requires
cross-referencing (noweave -x). I have included the nonstandard
`multicol' style file, although it is readily available as part of the
Mainz distribution.

Except for breakmodel.nw, each example file is a fragment of a larger
program.  noweb itself is not a good example of literate programming.
It is harder than most people realize to write a truly literate
program, and noweb wasn't worth the effort.

If you have installed noweb with LIBSRC=awk instead of LIBSRC=icon,
you need to use Makefile.awk instead of Makefile.

The files are:

  Makefile		Shows some sample default rules for use
			in a Makefile.  Try `make tree.tex tree.dvi'.
  Makefile.awk		Like Makefile but doesn't require Icon.
                        None of the HTML examples will be readable
			without Icon.
  breakmodel.nw		A formal model of breakpoints using the
			Promela modeling language.
  dag.nw		Fragment of an Icon program that compiles
			patterns into decision-tree pattern-matching
			code.  tree.nw builds the decision trees;
			dag.nw turns them into dags.
  graphs.nw		Several graphs written in jgraph (write
			plank@cs.utk.edu for information about jgraph).
  mipscoder.nw		Part of the original MIPS code generator from
			Standard ML of New Jersey.  Writting in Standard ML.
  primes.nw		noweb version of DEK's original prime-number program.
  scanner.nw		Part of a student compiler project.  Includes
			C code and lex and yacc specifications, all in
			a single file. 
  sharpline		A noweb filter that makes noweb `see' #line directives
                        in a noweb file.
  test.nw		A simple test file.
  tree.nw		Fragment of an Icon program that compiles
			patterns into decision-tree pattern-matching
			code.  tree.nw builds the decision trees;
			dag.nw turns them into dags.
  wc.nw			A re-implementation in noweb of the CWEB
			example from DEK's book.  This example is
			intended to be as exact a copy as possible; no
			attempt was made to improve the code.
  whitespace		A noweb filter that makes whitespace insignificant
			within chunk names.
