This is version 2.4 of ``noweb'', a low-tech literate programming
tool.  It probably came via anonymous ftp from princeton.edu:pub/noweb.shar.Z
or from bellcore.com:pub/norman/noweb.shar.Z.  This version contains
bug fixes for LaTeX code, and the distribution has been reorganized.
The file INSTALL tells how to build and install noweb.

INTRODUCTION

noweb is designed to meet the needs of literate programmers while
remaining as simple as possible.  Its primary advantages are
simplicity, extensibility, and language-independence.  noweb uses 4
control sequences to WEB's 27, and its manual is only two pages.
noweb works ``out of the box'' with any programming language, and its
formatter-dependent part is under 50 lines.  The primary sacrifice
relative to WEB is the loss of the language-dependent features:
prettyprinting and an index of identifiers.

noweb provides extensibility by using the Unix toolkit philosophy.
The ``notangle'' and ``noweave'' commands are built from pieces, which
are then assembled in pipelines using shell scripts.  The pieces are:

  markup	convert noweb file from human syntax to tool syntax
  unmarkup	inverse of markup
  nt		`tangle' the tool form of the noweb file
  noxref	insert cross-reference information for latex

These pieces are combined by the scripts in the bin directory to
provide more than just weaving and tangling:

  notangle	analog of TANGLE
  noweave	analog of WEAVE
  nountangle	tangle, but keep interleaved documentation in comments
  noroots	print names of all root chunks in a noweb file
  nocount	count number of lines of code and documentation.

noweb has been used for three years both at Princeton and elsewhere.
It has been used for tens of thousands of lines of code in such
languages as awk, C, C++, Icon, Modula-3, Promela, and Standard ML.

If you already know you want to use noweb, you need only install it
and read the manual page.  If you're just curious about noweb, a sales
pitch appears in the technical report in doc/ieee.tex.


WHAT YOU GET IN THIS DISTRIBUTION

This distribution contains the following directories:
  bin		all the shell scripts that make up the actual commands
  doc		man pages and a technical report
  examples	parts of noweb programs in different languages
  icon		Icon code for nonstandard weave and cross-referencer
  lib		noweave's cross-referencer
  src		source code for nt and markup
  tex		supporting tex code for /usr/local/lib/tex/macros
where appropriate, these directories have README files of their own.
  

WEAVING

The worst aspect of literate programming is the enormous amount of
time wasted wrangling over what prettyprinted output should look like. 
Although noweb does no prettyprinting, it is not entirely immune---
several people have complained about noweave's output or have sent me
changes that add more options to noweave.  Having been down that road
with Spider, I won't be fooled again.  noweb doesn't try to be all
things to all programmers, but it is very easy to change.

If you don't like noweave's formatting, you can easily throw away
noweave and make your own.  To help you get started, the bin directory
in the distribution contains three versions of noweave:
  noweave		the standard (supposed to be latex-proof)
  noweave.nr		what I use (handles 90 columns of code)
  noweave.simple	simple, uses no special TeX hacking
The simple version can't handle code with @ signs.  The article in
doc/ieee.tex explains the intermediate language that noweb uses to
represent literate programs.

noweb comes with two cross-referencers for use with noweave.  The
standard one is written in awk, because that's what everybody has.
There is also a somewhat better cross-referencer written in Icon.
Neither cross-referencer has been thoroughly exercised.  See the
INSTALL file for more details.

noweb is designed to be extended with a language-dependent
prettyprinter and indexer.  I haven't written one because my
experience with Spider taught me that prettyprinting is far more
trouble than it's worth.  If someone else wants to write one, I will
be happy to help and advise.


NOTES
  doc/ieee.* contains a paper that has been submitted to IEEE Software.
  You must `make install' before attempting to format the paper, since
  it uses the noweb document style option.

  The paper documents the representation of noweb files that is used
  by the noweb tools, in case you want to write any tools of your own.
  Simple tools (e.g. count the number of lines of interleaved
  documentation) are trivial.  If you write any tools, or you want
  tools written (e.g. prettyprinters, index generators), let me know.

  The icon directory contains Icon programs that do most of the job
  of noweave.sh and noxref.  If you want to adapt noweb to work with a
  text processor other than TeX or latex, they might provide a better
  starting point.  I confess that the whole system should have been
  written in Icon from the beginning, but I'm not going to do it over.
  Icon is available by anonymous ftp from cs.arizona.edu.
  
  Thanks to Dave Hanson for cpif.

Send comments or questions to norman@bellcore.com.  

I enjoy hearing from noweb users; if you have enjoyed noweb, why not
send me a local postcard for my collection?  My address is:

  Norman Ramsey
  Bellcore
  445 South Street
  Morristown, New Jersey 07960
               USA


COPYRIGHT

Noweb is copyright 1989-1993 by Norman Ramsey.  All rights reserved.

You may use and distribute noweb for any purpose, for free.  You may
modify noweb and create derived works, provided you retain the
copyright notice, but the result may not be called noweb without my
written consent.  You may not sell noweb itself, but you may do
anything you like with programs created with noweb.
